# Working with Data in JavaScript

Dealing and working with data is the main thing that we do as developers.

And that's the reason why, since the beginning of the course, we have been working with JavaScript's built-in data structures, like arrays and objects. Then, in the last few lectures, we learned about two new data structures: sets and maps. So now we have four data structures from which we can choose.

## Where Does Data Come From?

I want to start by quickly categorizing where data can actually come from. There are essentially three sources of data:

1. **Written within the program source code**  
   This can be static data, like status messages displayed on a webpage based on user actions.
2. **From the user interface**  
   This is data that comes from the webpage, such as user input into a form or data already written in the DOM. For example, this could be the users' tasks in a to-do app or expenses in a budget app.
3. **From external sources (Web API)**  
   Data can come from web APIs. APIs allow us to get data from other web applications. For instance, we can use a web API to fetch the current weather in any city, movie data, or currency conversion rates.

## Data Structures in JavaScript

No matter where the data comes from, we usually need to store collections of data somewhere. The built-in JavaScript data structures are key to this process. JavaScript provides four main data structures: arrays, sets, objects, and maps.

The first decision to make when choosing a data structure is:

- Do we need a simple list of values?  
  If so, we'll use an **array** or **set**.
- Do we need key-value pairs?  
  In this case, we'll use an **object** or a **map**.

### Key Differences Between Arrays/Set and Objects/Maps

- **Arrays and Sets**: These are collections of values without any description.
- **Objects and Maps**: These are collections of key-value pairs, where the keys are used to describe the values.

### Example: Working with Data from a Web API

Data from web APIs usually comes in a special format called **JSON** (JavaScript Object Notation). JSON looks like this:

```json
[
  {
    "title": "Recipe 1",
    "publisher": "Publisher 1"
  },
  {
    "title": "Recipe 2",
    "publisher": "Publisher 2"
  }
]
```

In this case, we have a collection of objects that describe recipes. Each recipe object contains a title and publisher, which are described using keys.

### Choosing Between Arrays, Sets, Objects, and Maps

#### Arrays vs. Sets

- **Arrays** should be used when:
  - You need to store values in order.
  - The values might contain duplicates.
  - You need to manipulate the data, as arrays have many useful methods.
- **Sets** should be used when:
  - You are working with unique values.
  - High performance is required, as operations like searching or deleting an item can be faster in sets than arrays.
  - You need to remove duplicate values from an array.

#### Objects vs. Maps

- **Objects** have been the traditional key-value data structure in JavaScript. However, objects have some disadvantages when used as key-value stores. Maps offer better performance and have more flexibility.
- **Maps** are preferred when:
  - You need a simple key-value store.
  - The keys are not just strings but can be of any data type.
  - You need better performance and easy iteration.
- **Objects** are still widely used when:
  - You need functions as values (methods).
  - You are working with JSON data, as JSON is typically represented as an object.

### Conclusion

- Use **arrays** when you need to store a list of values in order, and when duplicates are allowed.
- Use **sets** when working with unique values, especially when performance is a concern.
- Use **objects** when you need to store key-value pairs and want to use functions as values (methods).
- Use **maps** when you need a more flexible, efficient key-value store, especially when keys are not just strings.

In modern JavaScript, **maps** are becoming increasingly important, but **objects** are still widely used, especially when working with JSON.
