# Functions: Default Parameters

Let's start this section about functions with one of the easiest parts: **default parameters**.

And a new section means new starter files. So, as always, get yours from the GitHub repository and then open them up in your VS Code.

As always, we already start with strict mode here, but now let's talk about default parameters.

## What are Default Parameters?

Sometimes, it's useful to have functions where some parameters are set by default. This way, we do not have to pass them in manually if we don't want to change the default.

In this section, we'll continue with the airline theme that we started by the end of the last section. We'll create a very basic booking function, starting with the knowledge we already had previously, but without the default parameters first.

### Creating the Booking Function

```javascript
let bookings = [];

function createBooking(flightNum, numPassengers, price) {
  const booking = {
    flightNum,
    numPassengers,
    price,
  };
  bookings.push(booking);
  console.log(booking);
}
```

In this function, we need to pass in:

- `flightNum` (flight number),
- `numPassengers` (number of passengers),
- `price` (ticket price).

Then, we simply create an object with these values and push it into the `bookings` array.

Now, we can call the function like this:

```javascript
createBooking("LH123", 3, 199);
```

However, if we call it with fewer arguments, for example:

```javascript
createBooking("LH123");
```

The `numPassengers` and `price` will be set to `undefined`.

### Setting Default Parameters

We can use short-circuiting to set default parameters. In ES5, we would have done this:

```javascript
numPassengers = numPassengers || 1; // default value is 1
price = price || 199; // default value is 199
```

This works because if `numPassengers` or `price` is falsy (like `undefined`), the second operand (`1` or `199`) is used.

### ES6 Default Parameters

In ES6, we can simply set default values directly in the function declaration:

```javascript
function createBooking(flightNum, numPassengers = 1, price = 199) {
  const booking = {
    flightNum,
    numPassengers,
    price,
  };
  bookings.push(booking);
  console.log(booking);
}
```

Now, calling `createBooking('LH123')` will automatically set `numPassengers` to `1` and `price` to `199`.

### Overriding Default Values

You can still override the default values by providing the arguments:

```javascript
createBooking("LH123", 2, 800);
```

This will use `2` for `numPassengers` and `800` for `price`.

### Using Expressions for Default Values

The default value can also be an expression. For example, you can multiply by a factor:

```javascript
function createBooking(
  flightNum,
  numPassengers = 1,
  price = numPassengers * 199
) {
  const booking = {
    flightNum,
    numPassengers,
    price,
  };
  bookings.push(booking);
  console.log(booking);
}
```

Now, if we create a booking with `2` passengers, the price will be dynamically calculated as `398` (2 \* 199).

### Skipping Default Parameters

In JavaScript, we cannot skip arguments when calling a function. For example, the following won't work:

```javascript
createBooking("LH123", undefined, 1000);
```

This will set the number of passengers to `1000`. However, we can work around this by explicitly setting a parameter to `undefined` to keep the default value:

```javascript
createBooking("LH123", undefined, 1000);
```

This ensures that `numPassengers` uses the default value of `1`.

### Conclusion

Default parameters are a great addition to JavaScript in ES6. They make your functions more readable, and they allow you to provide default values for parameters that are not passed in by the caller. You can also use expressions in default parameters, which gives you a lot of flexibility.
