# Nullish Coalescing Operator

Let's now learn about the new operator with the funny name of **nullish coalescing operator**.

In the last video, we used the **OR** operator to set a default value in case the first value was a falsy value. Let's review that code:

```javascript
let guests = restaurant.numGuests || 10;

````

When `numGuests` is set to zero, JavaScript still takes this default value and assigns it to `guests` because zero is a falsy value. However, there is a much better solution for this, and that is the **nullish coalescing operator**.

This operator was introduced in ES2020, and it works like this:

```javascript
let correctGuests = restaurant.numGuests ?? 10;
```

### How does this work?

The nullish coalescing operator works similarly to the **OR** operator but with a crucial difference. It fixes the issue we had when `numGuests` is zero.

Now, if `numGuests` is zero, it will **not** default to `10`. Instead, it will return the real value of `numGuests`, which is zero. Only when `numGuests` is `null` or `undefined`, the default value of `10` will be used.

### Why does this work?

The nullish coalescing operator works with the concept of **nullish values**, which are `null` and `undefined`. This operator does **not** treat zero or an empty string as falsy values. So, if the value on the left is `null` or `undefined`, only then will the right side value be used.

For example:

- If `numGuests` is `null` or `undefined`, the default value (`10`) will be returned.
- If `numGuests` is `0` or an empty string, the value of `numGuests` will be returned because those are not considered nullish values.

### Practical Example:

```javascript
let restaurant = { numGuests: 0 };
let correctGuests = restaurant.numGuests ?? 10;
console.log(correctGuests); // Outputs: 0

restaurant.numGuests = null;
correctGuests = restaurant.numGuests ?? 10;
console.log(correctGuests); // Outputs: 10
```

In the example above, when `numGuests` is zero, it returns zero because zero is not a nullish value. When `numGuests` is `null`, the default value (`10`) is used.

### Summary:

The nullish coalescing operator is a very useful tool that ensures you get the actual value of variables even if they are `0` or an empty string. It only provides the default value when the variable is `null` or `undefined`.

